When we read the text for today, it gives us another reason to praise our Heavenly Father, Jehovah.
Because when we think about how Jehovah keeps us well informed, especially in regards to what to expect for the future,
is a truly wonderful blessing.
And Jehovah not only reveals the future.
He makes it happen.
Notice what is stated in Isaiah chapter 44 in verse 26.
Isaiah 44, 26,
The one making the Word of his servant come true,
and completely fulfilling the predictions of his messengers, tremendous blessing we have with Jehovah.
And as we analyze the interpretation of Daniel of the image,
we see that the interpretation deals with specific world kingdoms that did rise up in the world scene.
Those kingdoms did exist.
Well, we see the golden head, Babylon in verse 28 to chapter 2.
The second kingdom, the silver chest and arms in verse 39.
Middle Persia.
In the same verse 39, the third kingdom, the copper of diamond and thyshe, Greece.
In verse 40, the kingdom, the iron legs, Rome.
So there is no question that this kingdom did exist.
But we note that there is no mention of a fifth kingdom.
So how do we know that the feet represent a different world power?
How can we explain that the feet represent the Anglo-American power?
Well, let's analyze a few scriptural points that will help us.
We note that the description of the feet conveys the idea that what is represented by the feet would emerge from Rome,
rather than conquer Rome, as it was the case with the other kingdoms that were previously mentioned.
Because we notice in the image Daniel sees the same metal, the iron and the legs, extending down through the feet and toes.
So we could say that this fourth kingdom in Daniel chapter 2 represents two world powers.
Now, on this point, Daniel chapter 7 provides a very interesting detail, a key detail.
In Daniel's prophecy in Daniel chapter 7, he outlines the same four kingdoms that were mentioned in Daniel chapter 2, but describe as beasts.
In the description of the four beasts corresponds with what we read in Daniel chapter 2 for the fourth kingdom.
But in Daniel chapter 7, the fourth beast, which is Rome, reveals a key element of this particular beast.
Let's read it together. Daniel chapter 7 and let's read the verse 8.
Well, I consider the horns, the horns of the beast.
Look, another horn, a small one came up among them, and three of the first horns were plucked up from before it.
So we note that a particular horn grows out of the beast, Rome, in the horn and limb in these three other horns.
Now, history shows that at some point Britain became a part of the Roman Empire.
Then in the late 1700s, Britain, a former part of the Roman Empire, began rising to prominence.
And as the small horn, Britain eliminated three other horns, France, Spain, and the Netherlands.
By 1870, Britain had become the largest empire on earth, and had the most powerful military force.
So really, it was an empire.
But then this symbolic horn, originally imperial Britain, developed into the Anglo-American world power when Britain and the United States forged a special partnership during World War I.
And there is an additional point.
Revelation 1710 shows that after Rome, one more world power was due to come, another head, seven heads.
And the further reason that the fourth kingdom in Daniel chapter 2 represents not only the Roman Empire, is revealed by the words of our text for today, Daniel 228.
Because here, Daniel, in the interpretation to Naviconessor, includes what was going to happen in the final part of the days.
And the Anglo-American power has come into existence in the final part of the days.
What will distinguish the Anglo-American power from the previous kingdoms mentioned in Daniel chapter 2 is the mixture of clay and iron.
So the Anglo-American power will be a little weaker than the power from which it emerged Rome.
But here is the question, what does all this means for us?
Daniel told Naviconessor, the interpretation is trustworthy.
So it's not just a story.
We know the interpretation is accurate.
We know that there was a Babylonian empire.
There was a Middle Persian empire, there was a Greek empire, there was a Roman empire, and there is an Anglo-American world power.
These were real powers, governments.
So history bears out the opposite of the description that Daniel shows in chapter 2 and the order of appearance in the world scene.
But here is the question, we know those were powers were real.
But are we convinced that the stone, God's kingdom, God's government is also real?
Is that how we feel about it?
Are we convinced that the stone will destroy all the other kingdoms?
And if so, are we supporting God's kingdom?
Well, the path fulfillment of the portions of Daniel chapter 2 reveals that the remaining portion will soon be fulfilled.
But the stone is coming, it's going to hit the feet just a matter of time.
But here is another point of meditation as we read this information.
It took courage for Daniel to tell Naviconessor your kingdom is going to go.
It's going to be destroyed, it's going to be conquered.
Now that was not easy.
Daniel didn't know what reaction was going to come up from Naviconessor because Naviconessor was not in a good mood when that interpretation was provided.
He was going to kill all the wise men, including Daniel, if they could not tell him the dream.
So what is our position in regards to what Jehovah has revealed to us in Daniel 244?
Do we personally have the courage, like Daniel, to preach that message, especially perhaps, that in a more direct way is going to take place in the future?
Something to think about, isn't it?
So May our faith in what Jehovah has revealed to us for the future, move us to prove that we believe in God's kingdom, that we support God's kingdom,
and that we will have and continue to have the courage to preach it is a real government.